[Style Guide] Content Strategy (#9846)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/style-guide/content-strategy/API content strategy/guidelines-for-curl-commands.md

```--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
```

## Request without body content (GET, DELETE)

For GET requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it's the default where the request doesn't include a body and it's not recommended for GET/POST requests:

### GET request template

```
curl {full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

### DELETE request template

```
curl --request DELETE \

{full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

### GET request example

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/firewall/rules \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

Requests without a body don't really need syntax highlighting. However, in Cloudflare Docs we use bash syntax highlighting to highlight the several delimited strings.

## Request with JSON body content (POST, PUT, PATCH)

Make sure you include a `Content-Type` header if the request includes a body. For requests with JSON content, the header should be: `Content-Type: application/json`

> This header should appear after the authentication header(s).

Reviewer: We can eliminate the `(s)` and just say headers.

> For POST requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it's the default when the request includes a body:

Reviewer: Spell out contractions.

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \

--header "Content-Type: application/json" \

--data '({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])'
```

### PUT/PATCH request template

```
curl --request (PUT|PATCH) \

{full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \

--header "Content-Type: application/json" \

--data '({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])'
```

Enclose the JSON payload ( the --data command-line argument) in single quotes (') instead of double quotes because it requires less escaping (strings in JSON must be delimited using double quotes).

### POST request example

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/firewall/rules \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '[
  {
    "filter": {
      "id": "<FILTER_ID>"
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "description": "Do not challenge login from office"
  }
]'
```

### Escaping a single quote in the body

The recommended way of escaping a single quote inside the body is the following (assuming the user will run the command in a bash-like terminal):

> + Replace the single quote ' with '\''

Reviewer: This line is a little hard to read as is. Let's place the single quote within ticks so that it's a little easier to read.

}'
```

### POST requests without a body

If you have a POST request without a body, add a `--request POST` argument explicitly to the `curl` command.

Example:

```
curl --request POST \
{full_url_with_placeholders} \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

## Additional information

Code blocks with example requests that include a JSON body should use `bash` syntax, just like example requests without a body.

## Full request example

Example following the request guidelines:

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/api/v4/zones/{zone_id}/page_shield/policies \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "description": "My first policy in log mode",
  "action": "log",
  "expression": "http.host eq myapp.example.com",
  "enabled": "true",
  "value": "script-src myapp.example.com cdnjs.cloudflare.com https://www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js '\''self'\''"
}'
```

## Response guidelines

Include the complete response (including any empty error and message arrays, if present) using JSON syntax highlighting.

> A response starts either with an object ({ ... }) or a list ([ ... ]). The initial character should appear on its own line, as well as the last character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A response starts either with an object `({ ... })` or a list `([ ... ])`. The initial character should appear on its own line, as well as the last character.
```

```({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])
```

Notes:

> + If there are IDs that were obtained using a previous command, or if their exact value is not relevant in the current context, use a placeholder (for example, <RULE_ID>) instead of the ID. The same placeholder name should correspond to the same value – use different placeholder names for different ID values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ If there are IDs that were obtained using a previous command, or if their exact value is not relevant in the current context, use a placeholder (for example, `<RULE_ID>`) instead of the ID. The same placeholder name should correspond to the same value – use different placeholder names for different ID values.
```

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Guidelines for curl commands
weight: 3

---

# Guidelines for curl commands

Use long parameter names, like in the API docs, for clarity:

+ `--header` (instead of -H)
+ `--request` (when needed, instead of -X)
+ `--data` (instead of -d)

You do not need to use the `--url` parameter since it is the main curl parameter. Also, the URL does not need to be enclosed in double quotes (""), except if it contains a `?` character (that is, when it includes a query string).

## Indentation

Use two spaces to indent request/response bodies (the additional data included in the request/response).

For requests with body content, start indenting when you get to the body part (the line after `--data` in the examples in this page). This means that the URL, any headers, and the line containing the `--data` parameter should not be indented.

Requests without a body should not be indented also, to make them consistent with requests containing a body.

## Do not use jq as part of curl examples

> [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) is a separate tool that not everyone will have installed. Curl examples should not include response formatting through jq as part of the example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`jq`](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/) is a separate tool that not everyone will have installed. Curl examples should not include response formatting through `jq` as part of the example.
```

> If you must suggest the use of this tool, do it by adding a link to the [Make API calls](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/how-to/make-api-calls/) page in Fundamentals, which briefly mentions this tool. Do not repeat the existing content about jq near the curl example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you must suggest the use of this tool, you can add a link to the [Make API calls](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/how-to/make-api-calls/) page in Fundamentals, which briefly mentions this tool. Do not repeat the existing content about `jq` near the curl example.
```

## Request guidelines

### Preliminary notes

> + Make sure you do not use typographical/smart quotes in a `curl` command, or the command will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Make sure you do not use typographical or smart quotes in a cURL command, or the command will fail.
```

+ Placeholders in the URL should follow the same format as in the API documentation: `{zone_id}`

> + Placeholders in the request body (that is, the data included in a POST/PUT/PATCH request) should use this format: `<RULE_ID>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Placeholders in the request body (that is, the data included in a `POST`/`PUT`/`PATCH` request) should use this format: `<RULE_ID>`
```

The same placeholder name should correspond to the same value – use different placeholder names for different ID values. You can use the same request placeholders in the response, if they should match the values in the request.

## Authentication HTTP headers

If using Email + API Key authentication, include the following arguments in the `curl` command to add the two required HTTP headers to the request:

```
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
```

> {{<Aside type="note">}}Ending slashes included to facilitate copy and paste. Do not include the last slash if this is the last line of the curl command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}
Ending slashes included to facilitate copy and paste. Do not include the last slash if this is the last line of the curl command.
```

{{</Aside>}}

If using API Token (the preferred authentication method), include the following arguments in the `curl` command to add the required HTTP header to the request:

```
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
```

## Request without body content (GET, DELETE)

> For GET requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it is the default where the request does not include a body and it is not recommended for GET/POST requests:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `GET` requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it is the default where the request does not include a body and it is not recommended for `GET`/`POST` requests:
```

### GET request template

```
curl {full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

### DELETE request template

```
curl --request DELETE \

{full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

### GET request example

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/firewall/rules \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

> Requests without a body do not need syntax highlight, but bash syntax highlighting is used to highlight the several delimited strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Requests without a body do not need syntax highlight, but `bash` syntax highlighting is used to highlight the several delimited strings.
```

## Request with JSON body content (POST, PUT, PATCH)

> Make sure you include a `Content-Type` header if the request includes a body. For requests with JSON content, the header should be: `Content-Type: application/json`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to include a `Content-Type` header if the request includes a body. For requests with `JSON` content, the header should be: `Content-Type: application/json`
```

This header should appear after the authentication headers.

> For POST requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it is the default when the request includes a body:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `POST` requests, do not include the `--request` command-line argument, since it is the default when the request includes a body:
```

### POST request template

```
curl {full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \

--header "Content-Type: application/json" \

--data '({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])'
```

### PUT/PATCH request template

```
curl --request (PUT|PATCH) \

{full_url_with_placeholders} \

--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \

--header "Content-Type: application/json" \

--data '({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])'
```

> Enclose the JSON payload ( the --data command-line argument) in single quotes (') instead of double quotes because it requires less escaping (strings in JSON must be delimited using double quotes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enclose the `JSON` payload ( the --data command-line argument) in single quotes (') instead of double quotes because it requires less escaping (strings in `JSON` must be delimited using double quotes).
```

### POST request example

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/firewall/rules \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '[
  {
    "filter": {
      "id": "<FILTER_ID>"
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "description": "Do not challenge login from office"
  }
]'
```

### Escaping a single quote in the body

The recommended way of escaping a single quote inside the body is the following (assuming the user will run the command in a bash-like terminal):

> + Replace the single quote `'` with '\''

Reviewer 2: \ isn't showing up on the dev docs site :(

Which means "close string, add escaped single quote, begin string again".

Example:

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/api/v4/zones/{zone_id}/page_shield/policies \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "value": "script-src myapp.example.com cdnjs.cloudflare.com https://www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js '\''self'\''"
}'
```

### POST requests without a body

> If you have a POST request without a body, add a `--request POST` argument explicitly to the `curl` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a `POST` request without a body, add a `--request POST` argument explicitly to the `curl` command.
```

Example:

```
curl --request POST \
{full_url_with_placeholders} \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>"
```

## Additional information

> Code blocks with example requests that include a JSON body should use `bash` syntax, just like example requests without a body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code blocks with example requests that include a `JSON` body should use `bash` syntax, just like example requests without a body.
```

## Full request example

Example following the request guidelines:

```
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/api/v4/zones/{zone_id}/page_shield/policies \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "description": "My first policy in log mode",
  "action": "log",
  "expression": "http.host eq myapp.example.com",
  "enabled": "true",
  "value": "script-src myapp.example.com cdnjs.cloudflare.com https://www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js '\''self'\''"
}'
```

## Response guidelines

> Include the complete response (including any empty error and message arrays, if present) using JSON syntax highlighting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Include the complete response (including any empty error and message arrays, if present) using `JSON` syntax highlighting.
```

A response starts either with an object `({ ... })` or a list `([ ... ])`. The initial character should appear on its own line, as well as the last character.

```({|[)
  (...JSON content, pretty printed, using 2-space indents...)
(}|])
```

> Notes:

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove "Notes:"
